DOCS-7887 Agent Events explorer draft (#23171)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/threats/investigate_agent_events.md

    tag: "Blog"
    text: "Secure your Windows workloads with Datadog Cloud Security Management"
---

This topic explains how to use the Agent Events explorer to query and review the Datadog Agent threat detection events generated by the [out-of-the-box (OOTB) detection rules][12].

The Datadog Agent evaluates system activity on the Agent host. When activity matches an Agent rule expression, the Agent generates a detection event and passes it to the Datadog backend.

If an event matches an Agent detection rule *and* a backend Threat detection rule, a signal is created and displayed in [Signals][11] (`Agent detection rule + backend Threat detection rule = Signal`).

With the [Agent Events explorer][13], you can investigate Agent Events separately from signals. You can review the host path where the event happened, and view the event's attributes, metrics, and processes. You can also review the Agent rule that generated the event and view triage and response instructions.

## Proactively block threats with Active Protection

By default, all OOTB Agent threat detection rules are enabled and actively monitoring for threats.

> [Active Protection][12] enables you to proactively block and terminate threats identified by the Datadog Agent threat detection rules.

Reviewer: Did you intend to link this to the OOTB Rules page? Or should the link point to the [Active Protection article](https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/cloud_security_management/guide/active-protection/) instead?

Author: fixed it. thanks. great catch.

## View Agent events

To view Agent events, go to the [Agent Events explorer][13].

Agent events are queried and displayed using the standard explorer controls in the Datadog [Events explorer][14]. 

> ## Investigate Agent events

Reviewer: I try to avoid screenshots when possible, but I feel like it would've helped to have one in this section (it took me a few minutes to figure out where the Path w/process tree was located on the side panel - I thought it was on the Processes tab at first, partly because the event I was looking at only had one command in the process tree).

Author: added screenshot

To investigate why an event is listed on the [Agent Events explorer][13], select an event.

The event details include the attributes, [metrics][16], and [processes][15]. **Metrics** links to the host dashboard and **Processes** links to the host [process dashboard][17] and process agent installation steps.

> In **Path**, look at latest process tree. This gives you the best overview of what occurred by showing you all of the commands that led to the command that initiated the event. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In **Path**, the latest process tree is displayed. This gives you the best overview of what occurred by showing you all of the commands that led to the command that initiated the event. 
```

Reviewer: Suggesting this for inclusive language.

**Path** is often the best place to start your investigation of an event.

## Triage Agent events

To triage an event: 

1. Select the event in the **AGENT RULE** column in the [Agent Events explorer][13].
2. Select **Click to copy**.
3. Open the [OOTB rules documention][12].
4. In the search field, paste the copied rule name.
5. Select the rule from the results.
6. Review the rule **Goal**, **Strategy**, and follow the steps in **Triage and response**.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> [11]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/threats/security_signals

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[11]: /security/threats/security_signals
```

[12]: /security/default_rules/#cat-cloud-security-management
[13]: https://app.datadoghq.com/security/agent-events

> [14]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/service_management/events/explorer/
> [15]: /infrastructure/process/
> [16]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/metrics/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[14]: /service_management/events/explorer/
[15]: /infrastructure/process/
[16]: /metrics/
```
